# LED Board Content
Our LED board is not complex. The board has one job, to make lots of light, and it will make lots of light indeed. However, our board can perform *too* well. In fact, [the datasheet of the LED we are using](http://www.led-color.com/upload/201604/APA102-2020%20SMD%20LED.pdf) lists the maximum power consumption at 0.5W. Assuming that's true consider how the power consumption scales with 8 banks with 6 LEDs per bank. 24W is a lot for just some LEDs. Of course some of the power is dissipated as light but with light comes heat. The point of this week's content is *thermal management*.<br/>

We'll address two approaches to thermal management and bring up pros and cons about them. We won't go into any detail. Instead we seek *intuition*. <br/>

1. Aluminum board!
Using aluminum as the structural base for your PCB is a *cool* idea for thermal management. The short explanation for this is because aluminum (and metals in general) have higher [thermal conductivity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermal_conductivity) compared to non-metals (FR-4). Higher thermal conductivity is a good thing when managing heat because it allows for the material to act as a heat sink. Heat sinks, at a high level, aren't complicated either. They are things which are good at absorbing heat from other things. In our PCB for this week, we could have used an [aluminum board](https://www.pcbway.com/pcb_prototype/General_introduction_of_Aluminum_PCB.html) to suck heat away from the LEDs. Why didn't we? Because making an aluminum board is [expensive](https://www.pcbway.com/orderonline.aspx). Compare the prices between an FR-4 board with an aluminum board and you'll see!.<br/>
2. Thermal Vias
If we can't use (or afford) aluminum boards then the next best thing is to litter our PCBs with thermal vias. Thermal vias are copper plated channels between copper layers. PCBs have a lot of metal from the copper we use for power and ground planes, so let's utilize that existing thermal mass! Wait... if our LEDs are on the top layer of the board and our ground plane is on the bottom then how do we get the heat from the top to go to the metal on the bottom? Thermal vias can help by dissipating the heat from the top, through their individual channels, and to the large area of metal. Large planes of copper can act as heat sinks too! For this week's PCB we use the ground plane as a heat sink. We need LOTS of thermal vias to ensure as much of the heat from the lop layer gets sunk into the bottom copper layer. We need LOTS of them because vias are very small and heat dissipation only works well when there's a lot of area for the heat to spread. When you decide to litter your PCB with these thermal vias (you really should) you might notice that they can get in the way of other components. The drawback of relying on thermal vias for your heat management is that you use up a lot of real estate on the PCB. Like many things in life, balance is key. 

If you want to learn more about either of these two topics, Google them! There's plenty of online resources explaining the concepts behind both strategies. After including thermal vias into your LED board you should feel proud to know that you can solve the problem of thermal management!
